Changes to support fsdp+qlora and dsz3+qlora (#1550)
huggingface/peft: docs/source/accelerate/deepspeed.md

|---|---|
| Zero-1 |  🟢 |
| Zero-2   |  🟢 |
| Zero-3  |  🟢 |

> For using DeepSpeed Stage 3 + QLoRA, please share to the section [Use PEFT QLoRA and DeepSpeed with ZeRO3 for finetuning large models on multiple GPUs](#use-peft-qlora-and-deepspeed-with-zero3-for-finetuning-large-models-on-multiple-gpus) below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For DeepSpeed Stage 3 + QLoRA, please refer to the section [Use PEFT QLoRA and DeepSpeed with ZeRO3 for finetuning large models on multiple GPUs](#use-peft-qlora-and-deepspeed-with-zero3-for-finetuning-large-models-on-multiple-gpus) below.
```

## More resources
You can also refer this blog post [Falcon 180B Finetuning using 🤗 PEFT and DeepSpeed](https://medium.com/@sourabmangrulkar/falcon-180b-finetuning-using-peft-and-deepspeed-b92643091d99) on how to finetune 180B Falcon model on 16 A100 GPUs on 2 machines.

# Use PEFT QLoRA and DeepSpeed with ZeRO3 for finetuning large models on multiple GPUs

In this section, we will look at how to use QLoRA and DeepSpeed Stage-3 for finetuning 70B llama model on 2X40GB GPUs.

> For this, we need to set `zero3_init_flag` to true when using Accleerate config. When passing `--deepspeed` argument with deepspeed stage 3 json config file path to `TrainingArguments` class, zero init is enabled by default. Here, we will be using accelerate config and below is the config which is also in configs folder at [deepspeed_config_z3_qlora.yaml](https://github.com/huggingface/peft/blob/main/examples/sft/configs/deepspeed_config_z3_qlora.yaml):

Reviewer: The whole paragraph is a little confusing to me. I tried to break it up a bit, but I'm not sure if I captured the meaning entirely correctly. Please check if my suggestion makes sense:

```suggestion
For this, we need to set `zero3_init_flag` to true when using `accelerate config`. Here, we show the expected settings after calling it:
```

Then below this, where we currently have:

> Launch command is given below which is available at [run_peft_qlora_deepspeed_stage3.sh](https://github.com/huggingface/peft/blob/main/examples/sft/run_peft_deepspeed.sh):

Change it like this:

> Alternatively, we can use [this shell script](https://github.com/huggingface/peft/blob/main/examples/sft/run_peft_deepspeed.sh) in combination with the [provided DeepSpeed config file](https://github.com/huggingface/peft/blob/main/examples/sft/configs/deepspeed_config_z3_qlora.yaml). In this case, zero init is enabled by default.

Author: I will rewrite this, the above suggestion isn't what I am conveying.

--bf16 True \
--packing True \
--learning_rate 1e-4 \
--lr_scheduler_type "cosine" \
--weight_decay 1e-4 \
--warmup_ratio 0.0 \
--max_grad_norm 1.0 \
--output_dir "llama-sft-qlora-dsz3" \
--per_device_train_batch_size 2 \
--per_device_eval_batch_size 2 \
--gradient_accumulation_steps 2 \
--gradient_checkpointing True \
--use_reentrant True \
--dataset_text_field "content" \
--use_flash_attn True \
--use_peft_lora True \
--lora_r 8 \
--lora_alpha 16 \
--lora_dropout 0.1 \
--lora_target_modules "all-linear" \
--use_4bit_quantization True \
--use_nested_quant True \
--bnb_4bit_compute_dtype "bfloat16" \
--bnb_4bit_quant_storage_dtype "bfloat16"
```

Notice the new argument being passed `bnb_4bit_quant_storage_dtype` which denotes the data type for packing the 4-bit parameters. For example, when it is set to `bfloat16`, **32/4 = 8** 4-bit params are packed together post quantization.

In terms of training code, the important code changes are: 

```diff
...

bnb_config = BitsAndBytesConfig(
    load_in_4bit=args.use_4bit_quantization,
    bnb_4bit_quant_type=args.bnb_4bit_quant_type,
    bnb_4bit_compute_dtype=compute_dtype,
    bnb_4bit_use_double_quant=args.use_nested_quant,

> +    bnb_4bit_quant_storage=quant_storage_stype,

Reviewer: You're using `quant_storage_stype` all multiple times in the docs but elsewhere you use `quant_storage_dtype`. I think the first is a typo and should be changed from `stype` to `dtype` everywhere, right?

Author: done

)

...

> model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(
>             args.model_name_or_path,
>             quantization_config=bnb_config,
>             trust_remote_code=True,
>             attn_implementation="flash_attention_2" if args.use_flash_attn else "eager",
> +            torch_dtype=quant_storage_stype or torch.float32,
>         )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
model = AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(
    args.model_name_or_path,
    quantization_config=bnb_config,
    trust_remote_code=True,
    attn_implementation="flash_attention_2" if args.use_flash_attn else "eager",
+     torch_dtype=quant_storage_stype or torch.float32,
)
```

Also, when would we use `torch.float32` here?

```

Notice that `torch_dtype` for `AutoModelForCausalLM` is same as the `bnb_4bit_quant_storage` data type. That's it. Everything else is handled by Trainer and TRL.

## Memory usage

> In the above example, the memory consumed per GPU is **36.6 GB**. Therefore, what took 8X80GB GPUs with DeepSpeed Stage 3+LoRA and couple of 80GB GPUs with DDP+QLoRA now requires 2X40GB GPUs. This makes finetuning of large models more accessible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above example, the memory consumed per GPU is **36.6 GB**. Therefore, what took 8X80GB GPUs with DeepSpeed Stage 3+LoRA and a couple of 80GB GPUs with DDP+QLoRA now requires 2X40GB GPUs. This makes finetuning of large models more accessible.
```
